---
layout: post
title:  "Sprawl"
description: "distributed, hyper-fast, web"
date:   2014-01-01 0:00:49
categories: code storage dropbox
---

The Internet is an invaluable resource, yet over five billion people are still offline. Everyone should have lightning fast Internet. The world’s rapidly rising economies demand faster and cheaper Internet to maintain their growth. People make millions of requests for the exact same content; however, they must make these requests mutually independent of each other, requiring the repeated transmission of data over thousands of miles. Web content and media should not load so inefficiently.

Sprawl solves this issue and supercharges the Internet. Sprawl is software that promotes network efficiency by creating a distributed peer-to-peer network for online content. If 5 million people were simultaneously watching the Gangnam Style YouTube video, the Sprawl distribution network would share the video data between peers living in similar regions. Sprawl's optimization algorithm accounts for latency, geography, and traffic to enhance delivery. As a result, everyone receives content more quickly, origin servers receive less traffic, and the Internet lanes stay clear. Sprawl was successfully prototyped at HackUpstate Fall 2014 winning first place.

Sprawl could provide faster, cheaper, Internet access to people in dense metropolitan areas leveraging the large amount of Internet users and geographic bias of media-content trending at any point in time. Instead of sending data back and forth across oceans to remote communities, Sprawl distributes content organically by caching popular data locally. As a free service, Sprawl could inevitably enrich the human experience, ushering in a new age of Internet access.

