---
layout: post
title:  "Warp"
description: "intro to synchronous game-engines"
date:   2014-01-01 0:00:02
categories: game code
---

[**Warp**][warp] is my first naive dive into game engines and aims to be a synchronous multiplayer game-engine written in JavaScript.

#### Overview

Understanding the client-server synchronization model from a macro perspective
is fairly straightforward; the server handles networking and lets its clients
know the state of the simulation. The detailed strategies for doing this without
noticeable latency and ensuring a smooth experience are much harder to
understand, individual algorithms make sense but piecing the components together
gets complicated very quickly. By writing a game engine from scratch I can start
with a very basic and naive engine, and slowly add more complexity such as
network traffic diff algorithms, client-side prediction, advanced interpolation,
and latency compensation. Currently warp is tightly coupled with a basic 2D game for testing and debugging. If the engine ever gets to the point of usability I will decouple the game specific code and make the engine as modular and extensible as possible.

##### The next features I will be working on:

1. Server-side simulation and snapshots.
- *Efficient distribution / minimum packet size*
2. Client-side Prediction.
- *Input prediction / lag compensation*
3. Delta time / units in all sever calculations.
- *Ensure all pixel based calculations and scaling occur in client code*

[warp]: https://github.com/alexfreska/warp
