---
layout: post
title:  "Medusa - curated music API"
date:   2014-01-15 18:59:58
categories: music nodejs semantics code
---

**Medusa** is an API for curated music.

The reason I am working on Medusa stems from problems I had with previous music related ideas. A while back I was working on a new type of interface for listening to and browsing music. The issue I ran into was sourcing music - I could make the application read media files from my computer, but nowadays thats a pretty limited and old-school way to source music. I decided to create an open source hack, Medusa.

Medusa sources music information from the Musicbrainz open music encyclopedia of metadata. Medusa runs search and lookup queries against the Musicbrainz database. The artist/album/song information is then used to find a matching video on YouTube for the given selection. Video metadata and contexual information is analyzed and weighed to find the best match for queries. I decided to source audio from YouTube because its very accessible and virtually any track can be found.

Finding the best video for listening on YouTube is something humans can do easily. Medusa progmatically emulates this process and the API returns curated data that can be used to build a listening experience.

Achieving the *best* video match 80% of the time is fairly easy but not enough. I am trying to get the matching algorithm closer to 100%. Attributes such as Levenshtein/edit distance, video length vs Musicbrainz track length, identifiers in the video title such as "(Offical Video)", view count, YouTube rating, official video badge, YouTube video category, and other things all can be weighted to create a ranking system for identifying the best video. I am still working on figuring this out, but it is a fun problem.

The project will be posted [**here**][medusa] very soon.

[medusa]: https://github.com/alexfreska/medusa
