---
layout: post
title:  "Feed.io - Robust communication system"
date:   2014-01-10 18:59:58
categories: code chat websockets
---

[**feed.io**][feedio] is a real-time chat system focused on ease of use, productivity, collaboration, and security.

The goal with feed.io is to create a communication platform that takes the modern aspects of Facebook chat, combines them with the extensibility of an IRC system, and adds features that foster productivity.

I wrote the underlying system using the socket.io WebSockets framework. The system allows clients to join channels in which they may listen and emit messages. Messages have a type specifying wether they are being sent as content or to signal some other sort of action. I built the front end with testing in mind, and then started mixing in features. Because of this, something that I will work on in the future is refactoring and fixing the front end client code and UX.

The reason feed.io is named *feed.io* is because the client interface creates feeds out of content based on what the content *is*. Regular expressions and Markdown are used to parse information and infer the type. Links, code, and hash tags are currently aggregated into their own feeds. Once file uploading is added, files will also be pushed into a feed.

I have been focusing on adding features that get feed.io up to speed with Facebook chat and other popular systems. These features are small but powerful things we now take for granted such as message blobs (if two of a user's messages are not interleaved with other people's messages and are posted within a specified time period, then only the first message specifies the user), user images, togglable enter-to-send, and read-receipt. I have also implemented a realtime delete feature that removes the content from a post across all users. I plan to add post specific permalinks that open a chat and channel to the specific post within the historical context.

Another important feature that really drove me to start the project in the first place is code syntax highlighting. Currently feed.io recognizes the Markdown delimiters for code blocks and uses Highlight.js to syntax highlight. Highlight.js is not very good at inferring the language of code snippets so I am looking into alternative methods and libraries. I will also generate short names for code snippets to give users an easier way to reference them.

The project can be found [**here**][feedio].

[feedio]: https://github.com/alexfreska/feed.io
